# Project MarketPlaceLab

## About

An experimental marketplace platform designed to explore innovative concepts and practice advanced design patterns, pushing the boundaries of modern e-commerce solutions.

## Goals, Objectives and Ideas

- To experiment with various concepts, plugins and libraries.
  - API:
    - [ ] Scribe vs Scramble as tool for auto generating api documentation
    - [ ] Compare various tools to display api documentation 
    - [ ] Experiment with lomkit/laravel-rest-api package to explore api concepts
    - [ ] Best practices when designing REST API
  - Auth:
    - [ ] explore different auth options 
    - [ ] explore how to implement RBAC in Laravel
  - DDD
    - [ ] Experiment with DDD concept. Take inspiration from platforms such as Sylius and Magento.
  - Testing:
    - [ ] Unit
    - [ ] Feature
    - [ ] Api
    - [ ] Integration
  - Conventional Commits https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/
- Practice Design Patterns
- To have fun!

## Core Concepts and Definitions

### Vendor
Vendor is a business or individual that offers products. Vendors create, manage, and list their offerings as well as offerings from other vendors.

#### Main features:
- Channel - Resource to hold all configuration  related to selling products
  - Each vendor can have only one channel (consider option to allow vendors  to have multiple channels)
  - Channel to have toggable features like website, api 
  - Dynamic validation rules builder based  on toggled features

### Product
Managed by vendor. 

#### Main features:
- Different product types that can be configured including extra fields
- Can be sold on any channel once it has been assigned to that channel


### Coupon 
A discount code or offer that can be applied to reduce the price of a product or service in the marketplace.

#### Main  features:
- Managed by vendor
- Can be applied to product or group of products in cart.
- Can be scoped to channel or multiple channels, product or multiple products and combination of all.
- Can be limited to single usage or specified number or unlimited 
- Can be limited to once per customer
- Can be limited to be specified period of time
- Code can be manually inputted or autogenerated
  - autogenerated codes should be configurable including code length, prefix, suffix, format
  - custom format can be provided by user
    - regex
    - some other options?
- Rules can be built like in Magento
